---
aliases:
  - Ran An. Lab on a Chip. 2021
  - Emerging Point-of-Care Technologies for Anemia Detection
tags: []
title: Emerging Point-of-Care Technologies for Anemia Detection
authors:
  - Ran An
  - Yuning Huang
  - Yuncheng Man
  - Russell Valentine
  - Erdem Kucukal
  - Utku Goreke
  - Zoe Sekyonda
  - Connie Piccone
  - Amma Owusu-Ansah
  - Sanjay Ahuja
  - Jane A. Little
  - Umut A. Gurkan
year: 2021
journal: Lab on a Chip
doi: https://doi.org/10.1039/D0LC01235A
zotero: zotero://select/items/@an2021
---
<!-- START_ABSTRACT -->
Anemia, characterized by low blood hemoglobin level, affects about 25% of the world's population with the heaviest burden borne by women and children. Anemia leads to impaired cognitive development in children, as well as high morbidity and early mortality among sufferers. Anemia can be caused by nutritional deficiencies, oncologic treatments and diseases, infections such as malaria, as well as inherited hemoglobin or red cell disorders. Effective treatments are available for anemia upon early detection and the treatment method is highly dependent on the cause of anemia. There is a need for point-of-care (POC) screening, early diagnosis, and monitoring, which are currently not widely accessible due to technical challenges and cost, especially in low- and middle-income countries where anemia is most prevalent. This review first introduces the evolution of developed anemia detection methods followed by their implementation in current commercially available POC anemia detection devices. Emerging POC anemia detection technologies leveraging novel methods are reviewed. Finally, we highlight the future trends of integrating anemia detection with the diagnosis of relevant underlying disorders to accurately identify specific root causes and to facilitate personalized treatment and care.
<!-- END_ABSTRACT -->

<!-- START_TEMPLATE -->
# {{title}}

- Source:
- Tags: 
<!-- END_TEMPLATE -->