---
aliases:
  - Xiaomei Bai. Information. 2017
  - An Overview on Evaluating and Predicting Scholarly Article Impact
tags: []
title: An Overview on Evaluating and Predicting Scholarly Article Impact
authors:
  - Xiaomei Bai
  - Hui Liu
  - Fuli Zhang
  - Zhaolong Ning
  - Xiangjie Kong
  - Ivan Lee
  - Feng Xia
year: 2017
journal: Information
doi: https://doi.org/10.3390/info8030073
zotero: zotero://select/items/@bai2017
---
<!-- START_ABSTRACT -->
Scholarly article impact reflects the significance of academic output recognised by academic peers, and it often plays a crucial role in assessing the scientific achievements of researchers, teams, institutions and countries. It is also used for addressing various needs in the academic and scientific arena, such as recruitment decisions, promotions, and funding allocations. This article provides a comprehensive review of recent progresses related to article impact assessment and prediction. The review starts by sharing some insight into the article impact research and outlines current research status. Some core methods and recent progress are presented to outline how article impact metrics and prediction have evolved to consider integrating multiple networks. Key techniques, including statistical analysis, machine learning, data mining and network science, are discussed. In particular, we highlight important applications of each technique in article impact research. Subsequently, we discuss the open issues and challenges of article impact research. At the same time, this review points out some important research directions, including article impact evaluation by considering Conflict of Interest, time and location information, various distributions of scholarly entities, and rising stars.
<!-- END_ABSTRACT -->

<!-- START_TEMPLATE -->
# {{title}}

- Source:
- Tags: 
<!-- END_TEMPLATE -->