---
aliases:
  - Lili Cui. Nanoscale. 2022
  - Development of a high-throughput platform for screening lipid nanoparticles for mRNA delivery
tags: []
title: Development of a high-throughput platform for screening lipid nanoparticles for mRNA delivery
authors:
  - Lili Cui
  - Sara Pereira
  - Silvia Sonzini
  - Sally Pelt
  - Steven M. Romanelli
  - Lihuan Liang
  - David Ulkoski
  - Venkata R. Krishnamurthy
  - Emily Brannigan
  - Christopher Brankin
  - Arpan S. Desai
year: 2022
journal: Nanoscale
doi: https://doi.org/10.1039/D1NR06858J
zotero: zotero://select/items/@cui2022
---
<!-- START_ABSTRACT -->
We present an automated high-throughput platform to screen novel ionisable lipids for lipid nanoparticle-mediated mRNA delivery, which is integrated into a fully-automated workflow for LNP preparation, characterisation and biological evaluation.
          , 
            
              mRNA lipid nanoparticles (LNPs) are at the forefront of nucleic acid intracellular delivery, as exemplified by the recent emergency approval of two mRNA LNP-based COVID-19 vaccines. The success of an LNP product largely depends on the systematic optimisation of the four lipidic components, namely the ionisable lipid, PEG lipid, structural and helper lipids. However, the
              in vitro
              screening of novel lipidic components and LNP compositions is limited by the low-throughput of LNP preparation. To address these issues, we herein present an automated high-throughput screening platform to select novel ionisable lipids and corresponding LNPs encapsulating mRNA
              in vitro
              . This high-throughput platform employs a lab-based automated liquid handling system, amenable to high-throughput (up to 384 formulations per plate and several plates per run) and allows precise mixing and reproducible mRNA LNP preparation which ensures a direct head-to-head comparison of hundreds and even thousands of novel LNPs. Most importantly, the robotic process has been successfully applied to the screening of novel LNPs encapsulating mRNA and has identified the same novel mRNA LNP leads as those from microfluidics-mixing technology, with a correlation coefficient of 0.8751. This high-throughput platform can facilitate to narrow down the number of novel ionisable lipids to be evaluated
              in vivo
              . Moreover, this platform has been integrated into a fully-automated workflow for LNP property control, physicochemical characterisation and biological evaluation. The high-throughput platform may accelerate proprietary lipid development, mRNA LNP lead optimisation and candidate selection to advance preclinical mRNA LNP development to meet urgent global needs.
<!-- END_ABSTRACT -->

<!-- START_TEMPLATE -->
# {{title}}

- Source:
- Tags: 
<!-- END_TEMPLATE -->