---
aliases:
  - Laura C. Dapp. PLOS ONE. 2021
  - "Metacognition and self-concept: Elaborating on a construct relation in first-grade children"
tags: []
title: "Metacognition and self-concept: Elaborating on a construct relation in first-grade children"
authors:
  - Laura C. Dapp
  - Claudia M. Roebers
year: 2021
journal: PLOS ONE
doi: https://doi.org/10.1371/journal.pone.0250845
zotero: zotero://select/items/@dapp2021
---
<!-- START_ABSTRACT -->
Self-evaluations play an important role in various fields of study, specifically in research on metacognition and self-concept. Although the assumption that self-evaluations as known from metacognitive monitoring and academic self-concept are related has received wide agreement, the nature of such a relationship has only rarely been investigated. In the current study, the individual-differences approach that has occasionally addressed this association is discussed and extended twofold. For one, a novel way to compare metacognition and self-concept is presented by computing a self-concept bias—analogous to metacognition research. For another, the study targeted a younger population, namely first-grade children. In line with previous studies, the results confirmed a weak relation between metacognitive monitoring and academic self-concept when relating the two constructs at the absolute level of confidence. However, relating the constructs by means of the respective biases revealed a more substantial association. Thus, while previous studies have assumed the common thread between metacognition and self-concept to be best explained by a general confidence trait, the present study suggests the accuracy of self-evaluations to be at stake instead. Hence, by introducing a method to quantify a bias in self-concept, the current study proposes a new and promising way to compare and relate the constructs of metacognition and self-concept.
<!-- END_ABSTRACT -->

<!-- START_TEMPLATE -->
# {{title}}

- Source:
- Tags: 
<!-- END_TEMPLATE -->