---
aliases:
  - Sanli Faez. ACS Nano. 2015
  - Fast, Label-Free Tracking of Single Viruses and Weakly Scattering Nanoparticles in a Nanofluidic Optical Fiber
tags: []
title: Fast, Label-Free Tracking of Single Viruses and Weakly Scattering Nanoparticles in a Nanofluidic Optical Fiber
authors:
  - Sanli Faez
  - Yoav Lahini
  - Stefan Weidlich
  - Rees F. Garmann
  - Katrin Wondraczek
  - Matthias Zeisberger
  - Markus A. Schmidt
  - Michel Orrit
  - Vinothan N. Manoharan
year: 2015
journal: ACS Nano
doi: https://doi.org/10.1021/acsnano.5b05646
zotero: zotero://select/items/@faez2015
---
<!-- START_ABSTRACT -->
High-speed tracking of single particles is a gateway to understanding physical, chemical, and biological processes at the nanoscale. It is also a major experimental challenge, particularly for small, nanometer-scale particles. Although methods such as confocal or ﬂuorescence microscopy oﬀer both high spatial resolution and high signal-to-background ratios, the ﬂuorescence emission lifetime limits the measurement speed, while photobleaching and thermal diﬀusion limit the duration of measurements. Here we present a tracking method based on elastic light scattering that enables long-duration measurements of nanoparticle dynamics at rates of thousands of frames per second. We contain the particles within a single-mode silica ﬁber having a subwavelength, nanoﬂuidic channel and illuminate them using the ﬁber's strongly conﬁned optical mode. The diﬀusing particles in this cylindrical geometry are continuously illuminated inside the collection focal plane. We show that the method can track unlabeled dielectric particles as small as 20 nm as well as individual cowpea chlorotic mottle virus (CCMV) virions;26 nm in size and 4.6 megadaltons in mass;at rates of over 3 kHz for durations of tens of seconds. Our setup is easily incorporated into common optical microscopes and extends their detection range to nanometer-scale particles and macromolecules. The ease-of-use and performance of this technique support its potential for widespread applications in medical diagnostics and micro total analysis systems.
<!-- END_ABSTRACT -->

<!-- START_TEMPLATE -->
# {{title}}

- Source:
- Tags: 
<!-- END_TEMPLATE -->