---
aliases:
  - "EventLFM: Event Camera integrated Fourier Light Field Microscopy for Ultrafast 3D imaging"
tags: []
title: "EventLFM: Event Camera integrated Fourier Light Field Microscopy for Ultrafast 3D imaging"
authors:
  - Ruipeng Guo
  - Qianwan Yang
  - Andrew S. Chang
  - Guorong Hu
  - Joseph Greene
  - Christopher V. Gabel
  - Sixian You
  - Lei Tian
year: 2023
doi: ""
zotero: zotero://select/items/@guo2023
---
<!-- START_ABSTRACT -->
Ultrafast 3D imaging is indispensable for visualizing complex and dynamic biological processes. Conventional scanning-based techniques necessitate an inherent tradeoff between the acquisition speed and space-bandwidth product (SBP). While single-shot 3D wide-field techniques have emerged as an attractive solution, they are still bottlenecked by the synchronous readout constraints of conventional CMOS architectures, thereby limiting the data throughput by frame rate to maintain a high SBP. Here, we present EventLFM, a straightforward and cost-effective system that circumnavigates these challenges by integrating an event camera with Fourier light field microscopy (LFM), a single-shot 3D wide-field imaging technique. The event camera operates on a novel asynchronous readout architecture, thereby bypassing the frame rate limitations intrinsic to conventional CMOS systems. We further develop a simple and robust event-driven LFM reconstruction algorithm that can reliably reconstruct 3D dynamics from the unique spatiotemporal measurements from EventLFM. We experimentally demonstrate that EventLFM can robustly image fast-moving and rapidly blinking 3D samples at KHz frame rates and furthermore, showcase EventLFM’s ability to achieve 3D tracking of GFP-labeled neurons in freely moving C. elegans. We believe that the combined ultrafast speed and large 3D SBP offered by EventLFM may open up new possibilities across many biomedical applications.
<!-- END_ABSTRACT -->

<!-- START_TEMPLATE -->
# {{title}}

- Source:
- Tags: 
<!-- END_TEMPLATE -->