---
aliases:
  - Kyung Kim. Pharmaceutics. 2021
  - Antioxidative Effects of Carrot-Derived Nanovesicles in Cardiomyoblast and Neuroblastoma Cells.
tags: []
title: Antioxidative Effects of Carrot-Derived Nanovesicles in Cardiomyoblast and Neuroblastoma Cells.
authors:
  - Kyung Kim
  - Won Jong Rhee
year: 2021
journal: Pharmaceutics
doi: https://doi.org/10.3390/pharmaceutics13081203
zotero: zotero://select/library/items/XUXZH5EC
pdf: /Users/aquiles/Zotero/storage/CM496GCE/Kim et al. - 2021 - Antioxidative Effects of Carrot-Derived Nanovesicl.pdf
---

<!-- START_ABSTRACT -->
Oxidative stress is implicated in many diseases, including cardiovascular and neurodegenerative diseases. Because an increased level of oxidative stress causes apoptosis, it is necessary to inhibit cellular responses to oxidative stress. In this study, Carex, a nanovesicle from carrot, was isolated and investigated as a novel biomaterial with antioxidative function in cardiomyoblasts and neuroblastoma cells. A high concentration of nanovesicles was purified from carrots, using size-exclusion chromatography in combination with ultrafiltration. The characterization of Carex demonstrated that it had properties similar to those of extracellular vesicles. Carex showed low cytotoxicity in both H9C2 cardiomyoblasts and SH-SY5Y neuroblastoma cells, when a high level of Carex was delivered to the cells. Carex was further investigated for its antioxidative and apoptotic effects, and it significantly inhibited ROS generation and apoptosis in vitro in myocardial infarction and Parkinson’s disease models. Carex inhibited the reduction of antioxidative molecule expression, including Nrf-2, HO-1, and NQO-1, in both models. Considering its antioxidative function and high production yield, Carex is a potential drug candidate for the treatment of myocardial infarction as well as Parkinson’s disease. Thus, the results demonstrated in this study will contribute to an exploration of a novel drug, using nanovesicles from plants, including carrots.
<!-- END_ABSTRACT -->


<!-- START_TEMPLATE -->
# {{title}}

- Source:
- Tags: 
<!-- END_TEMPLATE -->
