---
aliases:
  - Fan-Zhi Kong. Journal of Chromatography A. 2015
  - Reciprocating free-flow isoelectric focusing device for preparative separation of proteins
tags: []
title: Reciprocating free-flow isoelectric focusing device for preparative separation of proteins
authors:
  - Fan-Zhi Kong
  - Ying Yang
  - Yi Wang
  - Guo-Qing Li
  - Shan Li
  - Hua Xiao
  - Liu-Yin Fan
  - Shao-Rong Liu
  - Cheng-Xi Cao
year: 2015
journal: Journal of Chromatography A
doi: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.chroma.2015.10.016
zotero: zotero://select/library/items/LUW54U7J
pdf: /Users/aquiles/Zotero/storage/GMTWAP36/Kong et al. - 2015 - Reciprocating free-flow isoelectric focusing device for preparative separation of proteins.pdf
---

<!-- START_ABSTRACT -->
The traditional recycling free-flow isoelectric focusing (RFFIEF) suffered from complex structure, tedious operations and poor extensibility as well as high cost. To address these issues, a novel reciprocating free-flow isoelectric focusing device (ReFFIEF) was developed for proteins or peptides pre-fractionation. In the new device, a reciprocating background flow was for the first time introduced into free flow electrophoresis (FFE) system. The gas cushion injector (GCI) used in the previous continuous free-flow electrophoresis (CFFE) was redesigned for the reciprocating background flow. With the GCI, the reciprocating background flow could be achieved between the GCI, separation chamber and transient self-balance collector (tSBC). In a run, process fluid flowed to and from, forming a stable reciprocating fluid flow in the separation chamber. A pH gradient was created within the separation chamber, and at the same time proteins were focused repeatedly when passing through the chamber under perpendicular electric field. The ReFFIEF procedure was optimized for fractionations of three model proteins, and the optimized method was further used for pre-fractionation of model human serum samples. As compared with the traditional RFFIEF devices developed about 25 years ago, the new ReFFIEF system showed several merits, such as simple design and structure, user-friendly operation and easy to extend as well as low cost.
<!-- END_ABSTRACT -->


<!-- START_TEMPLATE -->
# {{title}}

- Source:
- Tags: 
<!-- END_TEMPLATE -->
