---
aliases:
  - Ning Liu. Lab on a Chip. 2023
  - An optical nanofibre-enabled on-chip single-nanoparticle sensor
tags: []
title: An optical nanofibre-enabled on-chip single-nanoparticle sensor
authors:
  - Ning Liu
  - Ni Yao
  - Shipeng Wang
  - Zhang Zhang
  - Tanchen Ren
  - Ying Gao
  - Xuhao Zhou
  - Limin Tong
  - Lei Zhang
year: 2023
journal: Lab on a Chip
doi: https://doi.org/10.1039/D3LC00499F
zotero: zotero://select/library/items/9H8BJYM9
pdf: /Users/aquiles/Zotero/storage/9YGKH9AL/Liu et al. - 2023 - An optical nanofibre-enabled on-chip single-nanopa.pdf
---

<!-- START_ABSTRACT -->
Single-nanoparticle detection has received tremendous interest due to its significance in fundamental physics and biological applications. Here, we demonstrate an optical nanofibre-enabled microfluidic sensor for the detection and sizing of nanoparticles. Benefitting from the strong evanescent field outside the nanofibre, a nanoparticle close to the nanofibre can scatter a portion of the field energy to the environment, resulting in a decrease in the transmitted intensity of the nanofibre. On the other hand, the narrow and shallow microfluidic channel provides a femtoliter-scale detection region, making nanoparticles flow through the detection region one by one. By real-time monitoring of the transmitted intensity of the nanofibre, the detection of a single polystyrene (PS) nanoparticle as small as 100 nm in diameter and exosomes in solution is realised. Based on a statistical analysis, the mean scattering signal is related to the size of the nanoparticle. Experimentally, a mixture of nanoparticles of different diameters (200, 500, and 1000 nm) in solution is identified. To demonstrate its potential in biological applications, high-throughput counting of yeasts using a pair of microchannels and dual-wavelength detection of fluorescently labelled nanoparticles are realised. We believe that the developed nanoparticle sensor holds great potential for the multiplexed and rapid sensing of diverse viruses.
<!-- END_ABSTRACT -->


<!-- START_TEMPLATE -->
# {{title}}

- Source:
- Tags: 
<!-- END_TEMPLATE -->
