---
aliases:
  - Yiliang Liu. Aerosol Science and Technology. 2024
  - Number size distribution and charging properties of sub-10 nm metal-based particles produced by spark ablation at atmospheric pressure
tags: []
title: Number size distribution and charging properties of sub-10 nm metal-based particles produced by spark ablation at atmospheric pressure
authors:
  - Yiliang Liu
  - Michel Attoui
  - Rima Baalbaki
  - Runlong Cai
  - George Biskos
  - Yang Chen
  - Juha Kangasluoma
year: 2024
journal: Aerosol Science and Technology
doi: https://doi.org/10.1080/02786826.2024.2355174
zotero: zotero://select/library/items/U3N7N2C6
pdf: /Users/aquiles/Zotero/storage/WCCA6HJD/Liu et al. - 2024 - Number size distribution and charging properties of sub-10 nm metal-based particles produced by spar.pdf
---

<!-- START_ABSTRACT -->
Sub-10 nm metal-based nanoparticles have garnered immense interest due to their unique properties and versatile applications. In this study, we created sub-10 nm Ag-based particles with a spark discharge generator and explored the parameters impacting their size distribution and charging properties, including carrier gas flow rates, spark discharge voltage, electrode gap distances, and capacitance. Our findings illuminate that there is a comparable influence of different factors on both self-charged and neutral particles. Among the different factors, carrier gas flow rates emerging as a paramount determinant in particle size. While increasing spark discharge voltage and capacitance within the spark circuit increases particle concentrations, the associated changes in particle size prove to be less straightforward. Significant differences between the concentration of positive and negative self-charged particles manifest when the carrier gas flow rate surpasses 5.0 L min−1, with positive particles ranging from 0.8 to 1.2 nm and negative particles spanning 0.8 to 3.0 nm. Self-charged particles close to 1 nm tend to exhibit positive charges, whereas those larger than 2 nm tend to acquire negative charges, which suggests the growth of negative particles is faster than positive ones in the spark chamber. Nevertheless, these disparities between bipolar particles diminish with the increase of residence time, leading to the observation of similar particle size distributions. Positive particles consistently bear a single charge, while some negative particles exceeding 3 nm exhibit multiple charges, primarily under carrier gas flow rates exceeding 7.5 L min−1. This study provides insights into the control of properties of nano-sized metal particles, which are crucial for their practical utilization. Copyright © 2024 American Association for Aerosol Research
<!-- END_ABSTRACT -->


<!-- START_TEMPLATE -->
# {{title}}

- Source:
- Tags: 
<!-- END_TEMPLATE -->
