---
aliases:
  - João Lobo. Cells. 2019
  - "Identification and Validation Model for Informative Liquid Biopsy-Based microRNA Biomarkers: Insights from Germ Cell Tumor In Vitro, In Vivo and Patient-Derived Data"
tags: []
title: "Identification and Validation Model for Informative Liquid Biopsy-Based microRNA Biomarkers: Insights from Germ Cell Tumor In Vitro, In Vivo and Patient-Derived Data"
authors:
  - João Lobo
  - Ad J.M. Gillis
  - Annette van den Berg
  - Lambert C.J. Dorssers
  - Gafanzer Belge
  - Klaus-Peter Dieckmann
  - Henk P. Roest
  - Luc J.W. van der Laan
  - Jourik Gietema
  - Robert J. Hamilton
  - Carmen Jerónimo
  - Rui Henrique
  - Daniela Salvatori
  - Leendert H.J. Looijenga
year: 2019
journal: Cells
doi: https://doi.org/10.3390/cells8121637
zotero: zotero://select/library/items/IPU8W7V8
pdf: /Users/aquiles/Zotero/storage/3PMR2SDS/Lobo et al. - 2019 - Identification and Validation Model for Informativ.pdf
---

<!-- START_ABSTRACT -->
Liquid biopsy-based biomarkers, such as microRNAs, represent valuable tools for patient management, but often do not make it to integration in the clinic. We aim to explore issues impeding this transition, in the setting of germ cell tumors, for which novel biomarkers are needed. We describe a model for identifying and validating clinically relevant microRNAs for germ cell tumor patients, using both in vitro, in vivo (mouse model) and patient-derived data. Initial wide screening of candidate microRNAs is performed, followed by targeted profiling of potentially relevant biomarkers. We demonstrate the relevance of appropriate (negative) controls, experimental conditions (proliferation), and issues related to sample origin (serum, plasma, cerebral spinal fluid) and pre-analytical variables (hemolysis, contaminants, temperature), all of which could interfere with liquid biopsy-based studies and their conclusions. Finally, we show the value of our identification model in a specific scenario, contradicting the presumed role of miR-375 as marker of teratoma histology in liquid biopsy setting. Our findings indicate other putative microRNAs (miR-885-5p, miR-448 and miR-197-3p) fulfilling this clinical need. The identification model is informative to identify the best candidate microRNAs to pursue in a clinical setting.
<!-- END_ABSTRACT -->


<!-- START_TEMPLATE -->
# {{title}}

- Source:
- Tags: 
<!-- END_TEMPLATE -->
