---
aliases:
  - Nanomedicine at the crossroads – A quick guide for IVIVC
tags: []
title: Nanomedicine at the crossroads – A quick guide for IVIVC
authors:
  - Marc-Phillip Mast
  - Harshvardhan Modh
  - Carole Champanhac
  - Jiong-Wei Wang
  - Gerrit Storm
  - Johannes Krämer
  - Volker Mailänder
  - Giorgia Pastorin
  - Matthias G. Wacker
journal: Advanced Drug Delivery Reviews
doi: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.addr.2021.113829
zotero: zotero://select/library/items/IHIG6VUH
pdf: /Users/aquiles/Zotero/storage/Y3EZ2PH3/Mast et al. - 2021 - Nanomedicine at the crossroads – A quick guide for.pdf
---

<!-- START_ABSTRACT -->
For many years, nanomedicine is pushing the boundaries of drug delivery. When applying these novel therapeutics, safety considerations are not only a key concern when entering clinical trials but also an important decision point in product development. Standing at the crossroads, nanomedicine may be able to escape the niche markets and achieve wider acceptance by the pharmaceutical industry. While there is a new generation of drug delivery systems, the extracellular vesicles, standing on the starting line, unresolved issues and new challenges emerge from their translation from bench to bedside. Some key features of injectable nanomedicines contribute to the predictability of the pharmacological and toxicological effects. So far, only a few of the physicochemical attributes of nanomedicines can be justified by a direct mathematical relationship between the in vitro and the in vivo responses. To further develop extracellular vesicles as drug carriers, we have to learn from more than 40 years of clinical experience in liposomal delivery and pass on this knowledge to the next generation. Our quick guide discusses relationships between physicochemical characteristics and the in vivo response, commonly referred to as in vitro-in vivo correlation. Further, we highlight the key role of computational methods, lay open current knowledge gaps, and question the established design strategies. Has the recent progress improved the predictability of targeted delivery or do we need another change in perspective?
<!-- END_ABSTRACT -->


<!-- START_TEMPLATE -->
# {{title}}

- Source:
- Tags: 
<!-- END_TEMPLATE -->
