---
aliases:
  - Jan Nab. International Journal of Entrepreneurial Venturing. 2013
  - "Fostering the competence of science students in identifying business opportunities: a design research approach"
tags: []
title: "Fostering the competence of science students in identifying business opportunities: a design research approach"
authors:
  - Jan Nab
  - Astrid M.W. Bulte
  - Albert Pilot
year: 2013
journal: International Journal of Entrepreneurial Venturing
doi: https://doi.org/10.1504/IJEV.2013.051670
zotero: zotero://select/library/items/K72I4ZS5
pdf: /Users/aquiles/Zotero/storage/LQEJKB89/Nab et al. - 2013 - Fostering the competence of science students in id.pdf
---

<!-- START_ABSTRACT -->
Opportunity identification is a core competence for entrepreneurs, and therefore should be part of an education in entrepreneurship. A pedagogical theory for teaching opportunity identification has not yet been defined, and therefore a design principle for ‘fostering science students’ competence in opportunity identification’ was developed, based on theoretical and empirical findings. The design principle, consisting of three strategies was implemented in a course for science students and evaluated. The strategy aiming at enabling students to conceptualise opportunity identification appeared to be effective. The strategy which aimed to enable students to apply techniques for the generation of ideas in opportunity identification was partially effective, as was the third strategy which aimed to help students to apply the concepts and criteria of opportunity identification in authentic tasks.
The overall results of the course showed that the students were able to identify business opportunities and to create business opportunities based on their own knowledge and skills. The conclusion is that the synthesis of the three design strategies was effective to a large extent. Adjustments and refinements to the strategies are proposed.
<!-- END_ABSTRACT -->


<!-- START_TEMPLATE -->
# {{title}}

- Source:
- Tags: 
<!-- END_TEMPLATE -->
