---
aliases:
  - Hui Yan. Biomacromolecules. 2006
  - Thermoreversible Protein Hydrogel as Cell Scaffold
tags: []
title: Thermoreversible Protein Hydrogel as Cell Scaffold
authors:
  - Hui Yan
  - Alberto Saiani
  - Julie E. Gough
  - Aline F. Miller
year: 2006
journal: Biomacromolecules
doi: https://doi.org/10.1021/bm0605560
zotero: zotero://select/library/items/ZME6YGAY
pdf: /Users/aquiles/Zotero/storage/9CF6P7LN/Yan et al. - 2006 - Thermoreversible Protein Hydrogel as Cell Scaffold.pdf
---

<!-- START_ABSTRACT -->
A thermoreversible fibrillar hydrogel has been formed from an aqueous lysozyme solution in the presence of dithiothreitol (DTT). Its physical properties and potential as a tissue engineering scaffold have been explored. Hydrogels were prepared by dissolving 3 mM protein in a 20 mM DTT/water mixture, heating to 85 °C and cooling at room temperature. No gel was observed for the equivalent sample without DTT. The elastic nature of the gel formed was confirmed by rheology, and the storage modulus of our gel was found to be of the same order of magnitude as for other cross-linked biopolymers. Micro differential scanning calorimetry (microDSC) experiments confirmed that the hydrogel was thermally reversible and that gelation and melting occurs through a solid−liquid-like first-order transition. Infrared spectroscopy of the hydrogel and transmission electron microscopy studies of very dilute samples revealed the presence of β-sheet-rich fibrils that were ∼4−6 nm in diameter and 1 μm in length. These fibrils are thought to self-assemble along their long axes to form larger fibers that become physically entangled to form the three-dimensional network observed in both cryo-scanning electron microscopy (cryo-SEM) and small-angle neutron scattering (SANS) studies. The hydrogel was subsequently cultured with 3T3 fibroblasts and cells spread extensively after 7 days and stretched actin filaments formed that were roughly parallel to each other, indicating the development of organized actin filaments in the form of stress fibers in cells.
<!-- END_ABSTRACT -->


<!-- START_TEMPLATE -->
# {{title}}

- Source:
- Tags: 
<!-- END_TEMPLATE -->
