---
aliases:
  - Yanbo Zeng. Separation and Purification Technology. 2024
  - Spark deposition of lanthanum-carbon composite nanoparticles embedded in a polypropylene membrane for phosphate removal in aqueous solutions
tags: []
title: Spark deposition of lanthanum-carbon composite nanoparticles embedded in a polypropylene membrane for phosphate removal in aqueous solutions
authors:
  - Yanbo Zeng
  - Guangzhi Hu
  - Yuanxin Li
  - Yun Pan
  - Baichuan Liu
  - Fengqin Chang
year: 2024
journal: Separation and Purification Technology
doi: https://doi.org/10.1016/j.seppur.2023.126253
zotero: zotero://select/library/items/SVZPQE64
---

<!-- START_ABSTRACT -->
Eutrophication in water, such as rivers or lakes, is becoming increasingly serious. Controlling the phosphate concentration in such waters is the key to solving the eutrophication problem. The use of adsorption methods to limit the level of phosphate in aqueous solutions has the advantages of cost-effectiveness, ease of operation, and selectivity. In this study, a modified polypropylene (PP) membrane was used as the platform for the in-situ deposition of lanthanum-carbon (La-C) composite nanoparticles. Uniform lanthanum (La) and carbon (C) aerosols were deposited on the PP film using spark ablation, and the combined hydrothermal method was used to synthesise the nano-confinement crystal PP-La-C (PLC) for phosphorus removal in an aquatic environment. Because of the nanoconfinement of the PLC, particle agglomeration deactivation was effectively solved, and the doping of C changed the shape of La(OH)3 from particles to ultrafine nano-fibres, which resulted in a larger surface area and more abundant active sites, and the overall adsorption performance was improved. The addition of C reduced the cost, and La proved to be the main active site for phosphate capture. The adsorption test revealed a significant adsorption capability of 194.1 mg⋅P⋅g−1. Three variables, such as reaction time, dose, and original phosphate concentration, were selected and a model for predicting lake water phosphate removal efficiency was developed using the central composite design method. When PLC was used to treat water samples from Lake Qilu (Yunnan, China), the observed removal rate of total phosphorus was 94 %, which is consistent with the model prediction. A series of characterisations established that ligand exchange and multilayer adsorption were the main mechanisms of phosphorus removal.
<!-- END_ABSTRACT -->


<!-- START_TEMPLATE -->
# {{title}}

- Source:
- Tags: 
<!-- END_TEMPLATE -->
