In the book [[The Future we Choose - Christiana Figueres and Tom Rivett-Carnac]], the authors lay out 10 actions that we can take in order to prevent catastrophic climate change. These actions can be taken at an individual level, not necessarily collectively or through policy changes. 

1. Let go of the past

    Although the chapter goes to great lengths to justify what they are trying to say, the core message is that the values of the past do not necessarily align with the values we need in order to achieve a better future. The one example they provide is regarding the opposition to inland wind farms in the UK. The authors argue that people opposed the farms based on aesthetic concerns. If we would change our expectations regarding how the natural environment should *look*, we would have no moral constrains to install wind mills. Bear in mind that these are not protected areas, but the countryside, which, in the UK, is heavily modified by humans. 
    
2. Face your grief

    The future in which we will live will be radically different from the past we have enjoyed. Biodiversity loss, melting of glaciers, less food availability. These are realities for the coming decades. The authors propose that we should face the grief instead of turn away from it. The only way forward is by overcoming the sadness and despair that arises from the loss and build on optimism. Part of the damage is already done, we must move forward to prevent an even greater damage that *can* be done. 
    
3. Defend the Truth
    
    This section focuses on fake news and how non-scientific statements can quickly permeate society. The authors are completely un-creative relating what should be done. Check the sources, check the funding of the research, etc. What they propose is unmanageable and neglects the responsibility of social media corporations that profit from unscientific news, and of journalists. Many journalists publish articles based on single-sources, especially when it comes to scientific news. Or, what is worth, they use two opposing sources and assign equal values to them. There is a massive responsibility from legitimate news outlets on what is happening. However, the authors of the book completely neglect this, and push the responsibility solely on the readers. The individuals. If we must challenge every single thing we read, it means we would challenge also legitimate science. Challenging means doubting. I don't need to prove that global warming is a hoax, I just need to cast *some* doubt. What would be the threshold to say something is valid, legitimate, worth of my concern? Trump excelled at this. 