# Stagnation and Scientific Incentives

Key problem: [[Science after WWII has stagnated]], this can be seen by the lower GDP growth in both developed and developing nations. Assuming science is responsible for increasing productivity and efficiency, lower growth means lower scientific output. 

Under this assumption, it is fair to explore possible causes for this stagnation. After WWII scientific funding shifted its approach to have a quantifiable output, which gives rise to the [[problems with citation-based metrics]]. It is possible to argue that funding itself has fueled the problem because [[citations make science conservative]]. 

In the [[lifecycle of a sicentific idea]], the [[scientific exploration and play]] has a crucial role to further extend knowledge. Therefore, if we could measure [[measure the exploration factor of research]] and use that metric instead of purely counting citations, we could incentivize the creative development of new ideas. 



Literature notes on [@bhattacharya2020]

Overall the paper hits an interesting topic, regarding the incentives at play when deciding what research lines to pursue. However, there are several topics that are harder to digest (see, for example the [[eccentric scientist type]]). They completely lack to acknowledge that funding is only half the equation, job security is the other half. They don't discuss [[who assumes the risk while doing research]]. What troubled me the most was understanding what the authors mean by '*impact*' and overall what the output of science they think it should be. 

In many grant applications, there's an increase demand for justifying outreach. This may be limiting exploration to ideas that may have better chances of generating [[technology transfer]] out of academia. What puzzles me the most is that the paper itself may be victim of not exploring true novel ideas. For example, assigning funds randomly has a non-zero chance of hitting a groundbreaking proposal. Or by acknowledging that [[scientific collaboration yields better outputs than scientific competition]]. 

The authors do not discuss the importance of how society perceives publicly funded research. Scientists ought to be audited by the people who pay. And justifying spending money on *crazy* ideas may be (or may not be) easy to justify on the eye of public opinion. 

The paper does not discuss the concentration of grants in few hands, or that [[grant recipients are ageing]]. They even seem to mock *team play*, neglecting completely the idea that [[Scientific collaboration yields better outputs than scientific competition]], and that collaborations is an increasingly valued skill and can help cross barriers (see: [[eccentric scientist type]]). 

Overall, the paper is interesting but rather unimaginative and does not advance ideas novel enough. Interestingly, they do not apply their own analysis to the cases they deem paradigmatic, such as the development of PCR and CRISPR. Nor they discuss other fields beyond bio-medicine, which have an almost instant translation to potential applications in people's lives. What about Astronomy, or Math?

Tags: #literature-note #scientific-management #science-funding 