In this paper the authors develop a protocol to quantify the concentration of [[extracelluar vesicle]] in urine or plasma. They claim they can also measure the size of the particles. Essentially they have a protocol for immobilizing EV's in non-denaturing polyacrylamide gel. EV's are labeled (either specifically or non specifically) and then imaged with a confocal microscope. 

The authors claim that the method is much more straightforward than [[nanoparticle tracking analysis]] and it requires less sample preparation. The paper spends some time discussing how to calibrate a confocal microscope so that it can provide reliable results. It essentially boils down to finding bright spots in 3D and counting them. To measure size, the approach is to measure the total intensity (although the authors insist over and over again in using the maximum intensity) which should be proportional to the surface area. They don't discuss if staining can be sub-optimal, for example. 

To measure concentration the authors have to calibrate the observation volume. I wonder how can it be that this is not given out of the box by the microscope itself. Also, they talk about 'long exposure' to detect smaller particles, but they don't provide any number. They also don't provide numbers on the total time it takes to make an image, nor how large it is, nor its field of view, etc. 

The lower limit of detection is 5E8 pcles/ml but I wonder why is there a lower limit? And the maximum is around 10E11 pcles/ml. Not too far off from what the [[Dispertech]] device offers. 

There is a discrepancy between measurements with [[NTA]] and the [[EVQuant]] (the method proposed in this paper), mostly small particles are not properly characterized by NanoSight (at least when small means liposomes of 40nm). 

Interestingly, they use the detection of [[CD9]] and [[CD63]] (tetraspanin) because these biomarkers could change from cell line to cell line. [[TR-FIA]] is a bulk measurement that does not allow to distinguish subpopulations, therefore single-particle measurements are an advantage. "More [[epitope]]s on the surface of an EV will increase the TR-FIA signal, but more epitopes at a single-particle level will not result in higher EV count". 

The **results on clinical samples** show almost no statistical variations, despite the authors claims (n=10). The bars (which I believe are standard deviation) do not seem to correlate with the dots on the figures (sometimes there's only 1 dot out of 10 within the bars). Anyways, the authors claim that there is a correlation between prostate cancer and specific markers. 

## Important Conclusion
Although [[CD9]] and [[CD63]] are often used as general EV markers, they are only detected on a fraction of EV's.

## Literature note on [@hartjes2020]

Tags: #Extracellular-Vesicle #protocol #measurements-particle-size #fluorescence 